I tried them all in my personal quest of finding the best editor/IDE
Here are my favorites:

Editor: Sublime Text 2, hands down!
There is *nothing* close to it. It has usual things like code coloring (recognizes tons of code and data formats, even such rare ones like ASN.1), code folding, etc. My favorite features: Search Everything (very fast fuzzy search through menus, makes graphical menus obsolete) and Multiple Cursors.
In addition, it has tons of plugins that are written in Python; you can add many features like code check (PEPs), code autocompletion (Jedi, clang), diffs, vi mode, and many others.
It is semi-project-aware: you can load directories in it and it will allow to work with all those files.
It is very snappy and pleasure to work with.
It is not free but when it asks to purchase, you just click Cancel :)
(I am doing so because I am waiting for the version 3 release.)
Homepage:
The text editor you'll fall in love with
Must watch videos to fall in love:
Perfect Workflow in Sublime Text 2 - Tuts+ Course

IDE: PyCharm
It is a real IDE, not an editor with several plugins. It can work with projects of Django, Google App Engine, Web2Py, Pyramid, Flask, Twitter, Bootstrap.
Along with the usual features I mentioned above, it has many others that you need to work with more complex projects e.g. debugging, very powerful code refactoring, deep code check, remote interpreter, project deployment to remote servers via ftp/sftp/etc., version control (very good Git/SVN/etc integration, local/remote repos), bash and python terminals, etc.
Many more features are available via plugins, like additional file formats (.gitignore and bash, for example), integration with JIRA, etc.

I work on a large project; sometimes from my workplace, sometimes remotely. I commit changes locally, push to our private Stash installation, and deploy code to the server in a few clicks.
In one click (Cmd+S) I save files and deploy all changes to my server via SFTP.
In another click (Cmd+K) I commit+push.
There is *free* version of PyCharm. The commercial one does additional things that most of the users don't need (I have one though.)

Good luck!

P.S.  Sorry vim and emacs! You guys are good and venerable but your configuration and bringing to Sublime's and PyCharm's point is a pain; so I gave up and use them in exceptional cases where I can not work from my workstation and must work directly on server.